Neilj/improve federation docs (#5419)
matrix-org/synapse: docs/federate.md

Note that the target of a SRV record cannot be an alias (CNAME record): it has to point
directly to the server hosting the synapse instance.

### Delegation FAQ
#### When do I need a SRV record or .well-known URI?

If your homeserver listens on the default federation port (8448), and your
`server_name` points to the host that your homeserver runs on, you do not need an SRV record or `.well-known/matrix/server` URI.

For instance, if you registered `example.com` and pointed its DNS A record at a

> fresh Upcloud VPS or similar, you could install Synapse on that host,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fresh server, you could install Synapse on that host,
```

(or "machine", or whatever the correct word in English is)

Not sure it's worth getting too specific here, or including other brands in our documentation.

> giving it a server_name of `example.com`, and it would automatically generate a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
giving it a `server_name` of `example.com`, and it would automatically generate a
```

For consistency

> giving it a server_name of `example.com`, and it would automatically generate a

Reviewer: > it would automatically generate

IIRC you need to explicitly enable the ACME support and I read that as implying it was enabled by default.

earlier will follow the SRV record (and not care about the invalid
certificate). Synapse 0.99 and later will follow the .well-known URI, with the
correct certificate chain.

#### Can I manage my own certificates rather than having Synapse renew certificates itself?

Yes, you are welcome to manage your certificates yourself. Synapse will only
attempt to obtain certificates from Let's Encrypt if you configure it to do
so.The only requirement is that there is a valid TLS cert present for
federation end points.

#### Do you still recommend against using a reverse proxy on the federation port?

We no longer actively recommend against using a reverse proxy. Many admins will
find it easier to direct federation traffic to a reverse proxy and manage their
own TLS certificates, and this is a supported configuration.

See [reverse_proxy.rst](reverse_proxy.rst) for information on setting up a
reverse proxy.

#### Do I still need to give my TLS certificates to Synapse if I am using a reverse proxy?

Practically speaking, this is no longer necessary.

If you are using a reverse proxy for all of your TLS traffic, then you can set

> `no_tls: True`. In that case, the only reason Synapse needs the certificate is

Reviewer: Maybe explicitly mention that `no_tls` happens in Synapse's config?

> to populate a legacy 'tls_fingerprints' field in the federation API. This is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to populate a legacy `tls_fingerprints` field in the federation API. This is
```

other servers know how to find it. The way to do this is via .well-known or an
SRV record.

#### I have created a .well-known URI. Do I still need an SRV record?

As of Synapse 0.99, Synapse will first check for the existence of a .well-known
URI and follow any delegation it suggests. It will only then check for the
existence of an SRV record.

That means that the SRV record will often be redundant. However, you should
remember that there may still be older versions of Synapse in the federation
which do not understand .well-known URIs, so if you removed your SRV record
you would no longer be able to federate with them.

It is therefore best to leave the SRV record in place for now. Synapse 0.34 and
earlier will follow the SRV record (and not care about the invalid
certificate). Synapse 0.99 and later will follow the .well-known URI, with the
correct certificate chain.

#### Can I manage my own certificates rather than having Synapse renew certificates itself?

Yes, you are welcome to manage your certificates yourself. Synapse will only
attempt to obtain certificates from Let's Encrypt if you configure it to do

> so.The only requirement is that there is a valid TLS cert present for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so. The only requirement is that there is a valid TLS certificate present for
```
